@document.meta
title: Setting up Anki
description: Setting up Anki
authors: [
  Asynthe
]
categories: [
  Anki
  Steam
  Deck
  Windows
  Linux
  Japanese
  English
]
created: 2025-08-23T15:00:39+00:00
updated: 2025-08-23T15:43:22+0000
draft: false
layout: post
version: 1.1.1
@end

*Ankidrone* -> Person that spends all day doing Anki instead of having fun in the target language.

* /What is Anki?/

  *Links*
  - {https://docs.ankiweb.net/}[Anki Manual - Introduction]
  - {https://donkuri.github.io/learn-japanese/setup/}[Japanese Learning Setup - Immersion-Based Japanese Learning]

  Use it correctly
  Good or Again
  15-20 words a day
  vocab cards
  sentences cards (a+1)

  addons let you create a card very quickly.
  sentence cards need more effort, need more manual work for creating.

  vocab cards -> better for objects, directly translated words.
  sentences -> words with more nuance.

  Once in an *intermediate* level, it's better to create /monolingual cards/ which are cards which explanation in their own target language.

  ___

  - *FSRS* -> New algorithm (ver. 23.1)
  -- Create a new settings profile
  -- Settings -> Advanced 
  --- Desired retention: .85

  Daily limites: 10
  Maximum reviews: 9999

  Mixing with reviews

  Lapses
  Leech action: Tag Only

  ___

  Anki is usually saved in `~/.Anki2`.
  The flatpak is saved in `$HOME/.var/app/net.ankiweb.Anki`.

* /Setup/

  -> {https://tatsumoto.neocities.org/blog/setting-up-anki}[Setting up Anki - Tatsumoto]

  Install by using your package manager of choice. (Linux)
  Sign up for Anki Web to synchronize your decks on both your laptop and phone.

  ___
  /Tools/ -> /Preferences/

  *Appearance*
  Video driver: /Vulkan/
  Theme: /Dark/
  Style: /Native/
  /Minimalist mode/

  *Review*
  Learn ahead limit: *35* minutes
  /Show play buttons on cards with audio/
  /Spacebar (or enter) also answers card/

  *Editing*
  -Paste clipboard images as PNG-

  *Syncing*
  /Log in to AnkiWeb/

  ___
  Importing a Deck and configuring

  _Remember_: Create different *Options group* for /each type of material/ you learn.

** Quick Setup

   anki addons
   2055492159 1214357311 3918629684 1610304449 1045800357 1771074083 580654285

   Local Audio Server for Yomichan
   http://127.0.0.1:5050/?term={term}&reading={reading}

   Forvo Server
   http://localhost:8770/?term={term}&reading={reading}

* /Anki on Android/ (Ankidroid)
* /Keybinds/

  `e` to edit a card.
  `Space` to flip the card.
  `Ctrl+Delete` to delete a card.
  `Ctrl+Z` to undo a card.
  `Shift + 8` add a star for forgetful cards.

  *Burying a card*: Don't show this card today, show it tomorrow.

  *Suspend a card*: Don't show this card ever again, I already know the word.
  `@` or `!` to suspend a card.

* /Add-ons/

  How to enable an addon:
  Go to /Tools/ -> /Add-ons/ -> /Get Add-ons/ 
  then add the *code* that is in the addon website.

  One liner:
  2055492159 1214357311 3918629684 1610304449 1045800357 1771074083 580654285

  - {https://ankiweb.net/shared/info/2055492159}[AnkiConnect]
  - {https://ankiweb.net/shared/info/1214357311}[ImageResizer]
  - {https://ankiweb.net/shared/info/3918629684}[Japanese Support]
  - {https://ankiweb.net/shared/info/1610304449}[Kanji Grid Kuube]
  - {https://ankiweb.net/shared/info/1045800357}[Local Audio Server for Yomichan]
  - {https://ankiweb.net/shared/info/1771074083}[Review Heatmap]
  - {https://ankiweb.net/shared/info/580654285}[Yomichan Forvo Server]

  *Local Audio Server for Yomichan*
  `http://127.0.0.1:5050/?term={term}&reading={reading}`

  *Forvo Server*
  `http://localhost:8770/?term={term}&reading={reading}`

** Audio Server for Yomitan

   *Local Audio Server for Yomitan*

   Another amazing addon is {https://ankiweb.net/shared/info/1045800357}[Local Audio Server] for Yomitan, this allows to find natural audio quickly when /creating cards/.

   Go to Yomitan configuration page 
   -> *Audio* 
   -> *Configure audio playback sources...*
   -> here click on *Add* then Custom URL (JSON) and add `http://127.0.0.1:5050`

   More info on the {https://github.com/yomidevs/local-audio-yomichan}[github page].

   ___

   *Forvo extra audio source for Yomitan*

   Also add the {https://learnjapanese.moe/yomichan/#bonus-adding-forvo-extra-audio-source}[forvo] (code: 580654285) extra audio source, this can be useful with audio that is not commonly found, as forvo is a giant audio database.

   Go to Yomitan configuration page 
   -> *Audio* 
   -> *Configure audio playback sources...*
   -> here click on *Add* then Custom URL (JSON) and add `http://127.0.0.1:5050`
* /Notetypes/

  - {https://github.com/arbyste/jp-mining-note}[jp-mining-note]
  - lapis modified
  - lapis

* /Dictionaries/

  *Preferred dictionary order*:
  大辞林 Daijirin
  大辞泉 Daijisen
  明鏡 Meikyou
  新明解 Shinmeikai


* /Decks/

  - Core 2.3k
  - Ankidrone
  - {https://ankiweb.net/shared/info/1196762551}[Kaishi 1.5k]

* /Anki on Android/

  Firefox
  Yomitan
  https://github.com/lrorpilla/jidoujisho
  https://github.com/KamWithK/AnkiconnectAndroid
